---
title: Działa! (pol. it works) Hurra, Hurra!
---

End of theoretical muttering about objects and arrays came with new assignments. With difficulty graduation, by small steps I am going to prepare some slide position generator. This tasks seems to be exciting as frustrating in my case. 

The first exercise sounds easy:
"Let's assume that HTML for impress.js presentation is created (all steps) but without data-attributes. So steps don't have any position defined in HTML. (..) Write a script that runs before impress.init() that adds some positions to all steps. (..)."

I was jumping for happiness when my simple for loop worked.

I had a nice talk with my friend, experienced developer who tried hard to persuade me to start with Java or #C. In his opinion JavaScript is not a right place to start: it is difficult to debug and it is hard to learn all the programming logic in the browser. "The language is not important, abstract thinking and code writing are skills you need now".  

I am thinking seriously about getting back to [computer science online Harvard course](https://www.edx.org/course/harvard-university/cs50x/introduction-computer-science/1022) I started long time ago and never finished. It was just too painful.


### Today I Learned:
* Thanks to Bartek I understood that impress.js is not listening to any code I am writing outside this function, which wasn't too obvious for me.
* He thought me many other stuff, and found out that sometimes I pretend I understand.
* How to make css hovering animated effect that don't get back after hover. [Here is a nice example.](http://jsfiddle.net/rHpDn/3/)

_To sum up_:
Success should be celebrated.
