---
title: Trigger (off)
---

Time to prepare for Summer of Code and set log blog to track the work. It seems like changing every-day passion into full-time routine, but as ex journalist I am looking for some exhibitionist pleasure. Most likely one-side pleasure, my dear small audience.


Summer of Code starts in two weeks, all participants are supposed to prepare log blog.I have seen some of them already – beautiful design made in five minutes using popular services. Some people call it effectiveness, but there is such a masochistic pleasure in forcing open door I can rarely resist. I decided to build my hand-made blog. John believes that if something is not on Raills the only alternative for sensible people is a static website. I am under constant static-website and Raills propoagand that I started to beliefe that good front end developer does not need to get his/her hand dirty with PHP and I gave up tha idea of creating my World Press theme.

Middleman, open softwere for blogs on static websites made it possible to build all blogging infrastructure on my static website, but the problem started with Kudos feature. Kudos are definitely too "osom" [pol. awesome] to go without them. This feature totally made my day, and by made my day I mean it just took all the time, not only mine, but also John's.

For building Kudos jquery is not enough, apparently we need backend database to store our Kudos and remember this big numbers. Parse.com, here is the answer.  After painful way through documentation and figuring hundreds of variations of code, we made it. Ok, no-cheating -he made it, I gave up with back end.

### So what I learned today:
* Looking at someone coding can be more tiring than coding on your own.
* I found out brand new John’s conspiratorial theories:  Wordpress will likely disappear from the Earth within couple of years together with Haroqu, and since I am supposed to continue writing learning blog long after Summer of Code, therefore static website is the safest option. (All the variations including painfulness of PHP hosting and changing WP versions were also discussed.)
* I should be beware of Google Apps Engine, as it is the source of all the evil in the world.
* Before I show any code to John I have to count and correct every spaces and tabs in my code, before cleaning up all the code we will not move forward.
* Learning by watching doesn't work, but it makes your coding faster at least by 3 weeks.

To sum up:
You’d better make a good use of Kudos - it coasted me so much! Viciously I (we) made it so as you cannot unKudo your Kudo in case you change your mind ;p.
